hey everyone Travis here at Blizzcon
with coverage presented by omen by HP
I'm joined right now by Monty for the
first interview in quite a bit Monty
what we just saw seem to be a tremendous
dominant showing by a Korean team once
more at perhaps the largest eSports
final we could see this year what do you
think of Samsung's performance over SKT
last night three oh I haven't watched
the game just yet I probably will I'm
excited but I had to sleep for the
overwatch World Cup because I have a
site of 7:00 a.m. call time so there was
basically no way unfortunately I can
watch the games live but I have to say I
am just incredibly happy for ambition
he's a guy that I've known for many
years on a personal level and it
couldn't have happened to a nicer guy
and I just for a all-time great like him
to win the Summoner Scout finally is
just really awesome so I'm super happy
for him all right Blizzard PR person I
was just joking we're gonna talk about
overwatch World Cup okay so first off
great numbers great showing there were
lines to get into the arena seems like
there was a great deal of interest here
what was the experience like for you oh
it was great I mean significantly better
clearly there were a lot of issues with
spectating overwatch and I think that
people now see what all of these
projects that Blizzard were working on
to improve that experience and it's just
going to continue to get refined from
here but when I first saw those features
and we they asked us to come in and test
out features give them advice you know
give them feedback tell them that we
could find bugs request new features or
whatever we wanted and they've delivered
on so many things at the same time and I
think that when we first started casting
it it was just so very much easier for
us to cast the game it was sort of a
night and day difference and I really
think that the spectating experience is
just only going to improve clearly it's
not flawless now but this is just one
step in what will be a many step
approaches they iron out this entire
process were you surprised by the
viewership at all because it feels like
it beat a lot of people's expectations I
didn't really maybe a little bit for me
like I didn't expect us maybe to get
to 300k across all channels but I think
200k was a pretty reasonable expectation
for me and I think that a lot of people
really like overwatch and enjoy playing
obviously has a huge player base and I
think there's a lot of interest from the
eSports side because people understand
the resources that are being poured into
this title and they understand that it's
going to have a high level of production
and a high level of quality we're gonna
have all these features but it's just a
matter of getting those features out and
I don't really blame people for up until
this point not having a strong interest
in following the game because the
tournament's were intermittent outside
of Korea so unless you were a really
dedicated fan watching apex then it
probably wasn't that interesting to you
because for the hardcore fans it was
interesting and it wasn't it was a good
tournament scene no doubt but I think
for the average person when you're told
that there's this awesome thing coming
why not just wait for the super awesome
thing and it was difficult to get into
because we didn't have a lot of
consistent storylines or teams or
anything like that from event to event
so I think overwatch League launch is
going to go well we just finished up
with the overwatch league panel here
where they showed off all of the team
skins and the website and the mobile app
and I think people don't realize that
the way Blizzard likes to do things is
to really work on something and polish
it and polish it and polish it and then
when they are satisfied with a high
standard of excellence for their product
that's when they will release it so
people even get frustrated because it's
not as iterative as they would like it's
not step by step by step it's like
months go by and then they're like here
you go and when you see it you're like
oh holy that's amazing but I think
people just had to have a little bit of
a faith that this company that is known
for making amazingly polished titles was
eventually going to deliver on these
features and it's not like they were
stupid and didn't know the problems
right what has it been like for you
because as you mentioned a lot of people
were kind of waiting around to see how
all the stuff is going to come out it
seems like you kind of had this year as
everything is building and I'm sure
behind the scenes you were talking and
helping out a lot and doing like you
said casting of intermittent tournaments
tournaments now you know that
thing that everybody's been working for
is going to start in just couple months
so what yeah what is the last year like
been like for you and then kind of going
into next year you know what are your
thoughts so I was obviously involved in
Apex very heavily until the end of April
and I moved out here in early May and
this year has been a lot of working
behind the scenes on stuff so dough and
I are both hired as consultants for
Blizzard so I've been doing so many
things with the overwatch league not
just the most public one is like we were
helping you know give feedback on stats
to Blizzard on the spectator mode for
these kind of new features and
implementations but a lot of the other
work that we've been doing has been
giving feedback to new casters trying to
develop the talent pool make sure people
are polished and ready for the launch of
the league other things I've been doing
have been helping out with new team
owners so I've been having a lot of
conversations with the new sports teams
coming in because obviously I have
experience developing a professional
eSports team and how it should be
structured and what are the best
practices for players although some
people might some companies might
disagree that I know that but I actually
do and so I've been working with them
I've been working with indemic owners
such as c9 I I was giving them feedback
and ideas about their branding for
London Spitfire so I have been doing a
ton of stuff that just hasn't been
public or I've just been used by
Blizzard to help wherever they need me
to from the business end to the
structuring end to the tools and to
basically everything in between so I've
been trying to help with that as much as
I can to make sure that there's a good
product because I'm very concerned that
this appeals to an endemic eSports
audience the eSports faithful because
that's what I love about eSports right
so making that product attractive to
those people is like really what I care
about are you behind the this is how we
do it in Philly campaign that was all me
Philadelphia asked me what should we do
Montecristo to make the best possible
content that really resonates with
gamers and then I wrote and directed it
was that a long did it take a long time
to produce that I I wrote it on a
cocktail napkin
after several cocktails well how else
would I have a cocktail napkin that's a
fair statement so oh yeah but I mean as
you see that stuff jizz it does it make
you nervous at all that some of the non
endemics still don't get it
jokes aside I think they're gonna figure
it out really fast based on that
reception and we already know that
Philadelphia was putting out a specific
hire to develop that content and I don't
know imagine that person has not been
hired yet but you know some teams know
what to do
some teams I think are gonna learn by
trial and error overwatch teams I'm
happy to help you but as you were saying
you did all this stuff behind the scenes
all over the place now you finally could
see this thing all come together and
just a little bit is it is it exciting
for you is it are you nervous at all are
you exhausted or are you ready for it I
mean what's kind of going on I just want
the thing to start
a lot of people hardly feel that way I I
appreciate that
to do it right took longer and sometimes
it sucks to a sucked for me to wait that
long to but I think the reward of
waiting longer is going to be a better
product and this is something that is
being designed to last for many many
years in the future so it's not I can
wait another few months I could wait
another six months or so from from now
even if it took it because I'm planning
to be here and continue to develop this
for many years and I think a lot of
people forget that it takes it typically
takes an esport years from a launch date
to really start rolling it because
there's so much infrastructure and trial
and error of formats and developing a
player storylines and team storylines it
all goes into this and we didn't see the
League of Legends start LCS for example
into until 2013 and the game came out in
2009 and there are fair arguments to be
made that it is a very different time
now and so things should be happening
faster but realistically 18 months or so
from the launch of overwatch League I
think is a realistic timeframe for for
the game to start its eSports scene
because
you have to have those numbers about the
playerbase for example to convince the
big owners to come into the space to
build the biggest scene that you can so
it's not like I think it was a pretty
soupy fairy what was probably a pretty
safe bet that when Blizzard you know
Buzzard has a lot of success with titles
so it wasn't like super risky or
anything but I think that now that
Blizzard can go out there and say look
at the size of our player base look how
excited people are about this game it's
a lot easier to make it the same scale
of product that you want so you can't do
it I think as much before launch but now
that we're we're here and nobody has
ever created a global sports league
before so they're trying to also do
something that no one's ever done and I
think to accomplish that in 18 months
after launch he's impressive and I think
will look back on it and say well I was
actually pretty fast for the quality
that it's going to deliver very good
well hey at the end of this cuz I'm sure
you want to get off to dinner
is there anything that you would like to
say to any of the fans out there maybe
League fans that miss you maybe the over
arts fans that are excited to see you on
it at the overwatch league in just a
couple months anything at all yeah I had
a great time casting League of Legends
it was awesome to do it for five years
of my career and it's fun to see the
Korean team still doing so well at the
championship events and it's you know
it's always a great time to watch TSM
lose so all of these things I think
we're to continue in the future of that
game but for all you fans out there who
I think had a hard time watching
overwatch at first and it didn't have
the same level of production value or
the east of spectating experience I
would encourage you to give overwatch
league a try because it's really an
awesome game and I think you'll find a
lot to like about it I'm gonna be
creating a lot of content to help you
guys get into it as well understand the
basics of the professional scene and the
kind of tactics and strategies that they
use good well we'll look forward to that
thanks so much for the interview and for
everyone else you can check out the rest
of my coverage of all things Blizzcon
right here on my youtube channel thanks
so much to omen for supporting our
content this weekend they are now in an
official overwatch league partner be
sure to follow them over at omen by HP
on Twitter for more updates